#Course Info
The course is basically to hone software construction skills in general 

Lectures consist of lots of examples, to revise lectures / watch them, really just set up the examples, follow through the building in the lecture and then play with it afterwards to get a feeling for how it is, modify it compile it etc. get a feel for the construction and the process. (less notes, more practice) but also take notes as you are playing around

Read up tutorial notes / activities before hand so you know what you need to get help on

Weeks 1-6 has no hard assessments
After that u are fucked in the ass so hard you can taste the comp2041

No group work in this course.

#Filters in bash

##Byte streams
Running a program on unix and having it interact with the outside world involves taking in information or sending out information via a byte stream. Stdin stdout stderror. 

When you get Segmentation fault (core dumped) the core is in reference to the olden days where a donut of magnetic material held bits. 
Learn the history of computing so we don’t repeat the mistakes of the past

The difference between strerr and strin is mostly convention, it also allows us to separate error messages to a log file and std in somewhere else. 

Also buffer things. 

Note 
input stream 0 
Output steam 1 
Err 2

When gcc sets up your c program it adds in some code to open up and manage the input and output streams

Fopen gives you a byte stream from or going to a file. 

Other byte streams might lead to another device or over the internet to a computer. 

you can also pass in info via the argv 

```
#include <stdio.h>
#include <unistd.h>

int main(void){
	//direct request to operating system to 
	//write to a data stream (1 is stdout)
	write(1, "Andrew Rocks\n", 13);
	//write should not be used because it might be
	//absent from another platform
	//it's unix specific. 
	//printf is defined on most C systems within stdio.h
	//not embedded systems though to save space, a microwave 
	//does not need printf
	printf("Andrew Rocks\n");
	//note printf is a subset of fprintf which is set to print
	//to stdout
	return 0;
	//there is also exit which ends not just the function
	//but the PROGRAM
	exit(0); 
}
```

##Unix filters

* Unix shell also has special characters such as white space, the shell uses white space to seperate words, argv is set up depending on the spaces between strings. other ones are stuff like 
	* > or < to direct files. 
	* `filter < input1 input2 input3 > output`
* A file is (by the simplist and precisest definition) an array of byte
* a pipeline '|' allows two programs to be run at once with the output (stdout byte stream) of the first direction into another
	* `echo "Hello World" | reverse` outputs dlroW olleH
* the strace command can give you some info about a program that you don't know about, as it tells you the stack trace
* note control-D makes the os simulate a EOF to the byte stream.
* cat is short for cataonate, you can use it to collapse multiple files into one as well as echoing our file contents / stdin
	* `cat file1 file2 file3 file4 > all1`
* egrep can be given a pattern and it will only accept lines/input that matches the pattern
	* `egrep Zain` will only echo back the line you give it if it includes Zain
	* Can be given a flag to be case insensitive -i
	* the first argument is always a pattern, anything after are interperted as file names. 
	* `egrep main code.c` will return all the lines with main in them
* more / less are programs that organise a lot of data into pages
* wc will take in input and tell you how many lines, words and letters where in the input
* thus `egrep COMP2041 enrollments | wc` tells you how many people are enrolled in 2041!! one line <3
* grep is a cutdown version of egrep
* if you wanted to find a single charecter like F though, it will pick up lines with f in them at any point in any word. this is where we need ot use regular expressions
	* `F$` (with backticks)
* refer to tute notes for more information on how to use regex 
* regexp helps defines a set of strings usually thoguht as as a pattern. these are avialable for most languages.
* The pipe character in regular expressions specifies "OR" 'COMP2041|COMP9041' means to pick out lines that match either.
* astrixs in regualr expressions are also special egrep 'ba*d'
	* This will grab any line with bad in it, but there can be 0 or infinite instances of a. i.e bd bad baaad baaaaad 
* To the shell the '' quote symbol exscapes any special charecters so shell won't interpert that line but just send it on the egrep
* cat can have some options
	* -n number of output lines
	* -s squeeze conseutive blank lines into single blank line
	* -v display control-charters in visible form
* tac will copy the lines in a file but reverse the order bottom to top
* tr does a character by character rather then line my line operation
	* `tr a-z A-Z file` converts lower case to upper case in a file
	* replaces charecters in a crude way
* egrep takes lines and outputs the lines that match the given regular epxression
* we need to be able to define a set of strings, and regex allows us to have a notation to do that. 
* the ^ line in [a-d] (i.e [^a-b]) is negating the set, although -v does this as well
* ^ or $ control if a expression is at the start or end of a string
	* `'^and'` will only match lines whose first word is and
* note the follwing charecters
	* p? : zero or one repetitions of c
	* p* : zero or more
	* p+ : one or more
* cut is a great command for string editing 
	* -c10-16 means from character 10 to 16
* shell metacharacters are special charecters that have meaning to the shell. 
* note you can just pass in a regular expression as is but the apostaphies does tell shell to NOT interpert this, so only grep will. 
* [] are metacharecters in similar ways but for files
	* `rm file[1-9]`
* will remove file1 file 2 ....
* this does mean if you don't use '' shell may look for files with the needed pattern and if none is found behave normally. but if the file exists the shell might pass in COMP[29]041 into grep as in the FILE comp2041 or comp9041
* in shell * means all numbers and charecters so rm * will remove all files in a directory
* in cut -d means delim. 
* uniq will remvoe all duplicates, showing the uniqe elements of a set of string
	* -c will also tell us the count 
* join merges two files using the values in a file in each file as a common key. 
* some quick notes on `tr "ABC" "abc"`
	* replaces all A with a all B with b etc. 
	* -s is squeeze
	* -d is delete 
	* -c is the complement 
		* `tr -cd "[:alnum:]"` removes all NON alpha numeric characters 
	* you can also use ranges `tr "a-z" "A-Z"`
*  let say you have a whole set of z numbers like 123456 but wanted to convert them all to emails i.e z123456@zmail...
* we can use sed to do this!! sed will replace 1 regex with another 
	* sed 's/^/z/'
	* sed 's/$/@unsw.edu.au'
	* remember the g flag to replace every instance and not the first per line
* now we want to seperate emails by comma
	* sed "s/'\n'/,"
* note that wc hp?.txt works with the bash meta character ? which can be any thing. hence it will search hp1 hp2 hp3 hp4 hp5 hp6 hp7 
* grep -v '^$' is a good way to remove empty lines!
* note that find will work down the current directly to find a regualr expression
* note paste with merge certain bits of files 

##Shell Scripting

* a command interperter  is program that executes other programs, a GUI is a type of this. 
* a command line is a type of command interperter 
* the most popular shell is bash 
* what we learn is a core likely to be supported by any shell. (there is also busy box which is used in embedded appications)
* ps lists current processes
* strace -p[process id] will stack trace a process
	* tells you the interactiosn between a process and the os
* you can do echo [command] to print out the putput but not execute the command
* you can run a command and grab output via either the backticks or $()
* the OS will check the start of a file for !/ to tell the os that this is a interperted file. 
* the reason the os blocks a user for executing some files i sbecause some things like txt files shouldn't me executued, so untill you declare it as executuable you can't run it. 
* removing read and write permission is to prevent accidents and also to manage multiple users. 
* if you try to use a empty variable shell will jsut put in a empty string. ther are no types variabels are just strings really. 
* note that echo/shell will concatinate strings next to each other
* "" in bash means STRING where as '' means all special charecters mean nothing inhere 
* in string you can go "$i", $ is still treated as a meta charecter
* note that * means any number of any character including 0
* ? is a single charecter, any character 
* [] is a set 
* expr does calculations and is the same as $(())
* note expr is a program that is calle dand is expencive. 
* if and then and else etc, are all programs technically. 
* /dev/null (somewhere you can direct output that is basically a bin)
* note that your errors go to stderr so that if someone uses the program with > to direct the output stnd err is stil shown to the screen. 
* you can also do 2 > /dev/null to output stnderr ( i think)
* sleep also works
* remember 0 is true in shell, 1 and false in shell. 
* be careful when working with file names, if a file name has a space in it going test $filename may end up being test my file which gives test 2 varibales where you expected one 
* 